This is the holy land in India where the Buddha spent so many years, over 20 years, after his
enlightenment.
There are very rich devotees, and his Dharma patterns are known as another punakas.
One day another punaka invited him. Many times he invited the whole Sangha congregation for lunch.
Many times he invited, and each time we invited, each time when the Buddha's teaching said, "You
should dedicate that merit."
So every time they dedicated the merits, merit to whatever, they do military activities.
And now another punaka again, he invited one day Buddha, and this time another punaka asked,
"Buddha, Buddha, please could you dedicate this merit of my offering lunch to you all, or the
poorest person in our country?"
Poorest person. So they get married with this. Then Buddha said, "Yes."
So then end that lunch is finished, and according each time and out to you in the Southern Buddhist
school they do.
After finishing the lunch, those are the patrons who offered the lunch and who met that.
Come in the middle of the room and sit on the floor and then listen the dedication prayers, merit
this.
So another punaka and his family member came right in front of the Buddha and sit on the floor and
listened Buddha's dedication prayers.
And Buddha dedicated to who?
Buddha said, "Whatever the merit that God from this, this lunch offering provided in another padak
as,
made that merit all goes to the king of their country."
To the king is called personjita, sahaja.
So then all that finished, and everything the dedication finished, and then another punaka came up
to Buddha very politely.
"Buddha, I ask you to dedicate the merit, the poorest person in our country,
and you can dedicate the merit to the most richest and powerful person in the country."
Buddha said, "Yes, I dedicate the merit to king of personjita."
Why? He is the poorest person in our country, even though he has everything, still he is not enough
.
He is always crying, always crying, "Therefore, I dedicate this merit to him."
So that tells the wealth externally. Wealth is not really rich. Heart has to be rich.
If your heart becomes rich, and your external wealth is rich, then it is excellent.
But if external wealth, you have so much, and in the heart is always crying and hungry and thirsty
all the time.
It is poor. You have no rest. That person has no peace mind.
Therefore, meditation, when you do the cause of meditation, content is so important.
It will become one of the best support for the practice of meditation.